career-development/ladder.md, before:

# Abtion Dev Career Ladder

This career ladder is a work in progress from dev leadership at Abtion. At a high level, a career ladder is a formal doc within a company that allows employees to advance their careers to higher levels of salary, responsibility and authority. Once employees meet certain criteria, they are eligible to move into higher-level roles.

Our goal with the ladder is to provide a clear path for professional development, and to have clear expectations regarding skills and salary at each level. As much as possible, we want people to see and take advantage of opportunities to grow here. To that end, we see this as a bit of a two way contract: what we will provide to you in terms of growth, and for you, what you'll take on in learning.

Please feel free to make PRs with suggestions. This is something that we welcome community feedback on!

Here are some examples of other career ladders:

[https://www.progression.fyi](https://www.progression.fyi)

## High Level Company Values
1. Bonded by Love for Product
1. Continuous Delivery
1. Customer Comes First
1. Heavily Team Oriented
1. High Employee Retention
1. High Quality Code Base
1. Open Communication 
1. Pair-Programs

## Dev Values : Simple, Test-Driven, Iterative, Communicative, Respectful, Skilled 

### Level 1
#### Simple 
- [ ] Is working on naming variables and learning to extract methods.
	
#### Test-driven
- [ ] Checks that all tests pass before merging into a shared branch.
- [ ] Can understand where expectations are not met and fix some with the help of more senior developers.
	
#### Iterative
- [ ] Understands red-green-refactor.
	
#### Communication
- [ ] Updates Asana.
- [ ] Comes prepared for meetings.
- [ ] Uses time tracking tools and vacation notifications.
	
#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] On time for meetings.
- [ ] Cares about their work.
	
#### Technical skills
- [ ] Knows about the three main sections of a Git project(working, staging, repository) as well as the most common commands(commit, pull, push)
- [ ] Uses a common linter such as rubocop
- [ ] Can write code in at least one language.

### Level 2
#### Simple 	
- [ ] Creates simple method / functions that most static code analysers would accept.
- [ ] Makes clear prs
#### Test-driven
- [ ] Codes unit tests before code, writes acceptance tests.
#### Iterative
- [ ] Delivers working code with each commit.
#### Communication	
- [ ] Hosts retros.
- [ ] Can compose a PR and provide feedback on them.
#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Shows respect for client goals
- [ ] Encourages team to stay on a sustainable pace.
#### Technical skills
- [ ] Understands what differentiates their favourite language with others. Knows what the language is useful for and when it is not the best option.
- [ ] Understand where to place logic in their favourite framework.

### Level 3
#### Simple 
- [ ] -
#### Test-driven
- [ ] Can start a project from scratch and setup testing frameworks.
- [ ] Has an opinion about which frameworks to use.
- [ ] Can mock http requests and understands where these tests will potentially fail.
- [ ] Can integrate CI.	
#### Iterative	
- [ ] Works with red-green-refactor.
- [ ] Uses time management techniques
#### Communication	
- [ ] Is proficient with pair programming.
- [ ] Can write user stories.
- [ ] Can introduce a new member to the project. 
#### Respectful teammate	
- [ ] Actively participates in feedback for team members.
#### Technical skills
- [ ] Can write code in at least two technical areas (frontend, backend, digital infrastructure). 

### Level 4
#### Simple 
- [ ] Does not over optimize. Understands when code is "good-enough".
#### Test-driven	
- [ ] Makes use of stubbing and mocking.
- [ ] Understands tradeoffs of hitting the db. 
#### Iterative	
- [ ] Well-composed commit narratives in commit flows. 
#### Communication	
- [ ] Can help PM cultivate an Asana board.
- [ ] Understands kanban.
- [ ] Can teach juniors to pair program.
#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Communicate with PMs when goals are unattainable.
- [ ] Understands the difficulties that the team is going through and helps how they can.	
#### Technical skills
- [ ] Demonstrates ability to succeed in a wide range of complex situations across multiple axes: e.g. scale, uncertainty, interconnectedness.

### Level 5
#### Simple 	
- [ ] Extracts complex logic into small easy-to-follow classes/components.
#### Test-driven
- [ ] -
#### Iterative	
- [ ] Can guide an IPM and team reflection.
#### Communication	
- [ ] Aligns team on expectations.
- [ ] Identifies miscommunications and solves them before they become a problem.
#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Help dissolve tension when arises.
- [ ] Does not take "all" responsibilities. They let their teammates take responsibilities they care about.	
#### Technical skills
- [ ] Breaks down complex projects into simple systems that can be effectively built and maintained by less experienced developers.

### Level 6
#### Simple 	
- [ ] Has a clear understanding of long term maintenance costs and tradeoffs related to simplifying code
#### Test-driven	
- [ ] Understands the cost of maintaining tests. 
- [ ] Writes cost-effective tests.
#### Iterative
- [ ] Brings new working-methods that improve team performance.	
#### Communication	
- [ ] Works to define tasks in Asana and can mentor juniors in defining them.
- [ ] Can collaborate with client about estimates and prioritization. 
#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Respects the right of junior team members to own parts of the code.
- [ ] Can effectively run and explain 360 reviews.	
#### Technical skills
- [ ] Is recognized for high quality, impactful technical contributions.

Commit message:

Add some additional prompts to level 6 test driven

career-development/ladder.md, after:

# Abtion Dev Career Ladder

This career ladder is a work in progress from dev leadership at Abtion. At a high level, a career ladder is a formal doc within a company that allows employees to advance their careers to higher levels of salary, responsibility and authority. Once employees meet certain criteria, they are eligible to move into higher-level roles.

Our goal with the ladder is to provide a clear path for professional development, and to have clear expectations regarding skills and salary at each level. As much as possible, we want people to see and take advantage of opportunities to grow here. To that end, we see this as a bit of a two way contract: what we will provide to you in terms of growth, and for you, what you'll take on in learning.

Please feel free to make PRs with suggestions. This is something that we welcome community feedback on!

Here are some examples of other career ladders:

[https://www.progression.fyi](https://www.progression.fyi)

## High Level Company Values
1. Bonded by Love for Product
1. Continuous Delivery
1. Customer Comes First
1. Heavily Team Oriented
1. High Employee Retention
1. High Quality Code Base
1. Open Communication 
1. Pair-Programs

## Dev Values : Simple, Test-Driven, Iterative, Communicative, Respectful, Skilled 

### Level 1
#### Simple 
- [ ] Is working on naming variables and learning to extract methods.
	
#### Test-driven
- [ ] Checks that all tests pass before merging into a shared branch.
- [ ] Can understand where expectations are not met and fix some with the help of more senior developers.
	
#### Iterative
- [ ] Understands red-green-refactor.
	
#### Communication
- [ ] Updates Asana.
- [ ] Comes prepared for meetings.
- [ ] Uses time tracking tools and vacation notifications.
	
#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] On time for meetings.
- [ ] Cares about their work.
	
#### Technical skills
- [ ] Knows about the three main sections of a Git project(working, staging, repository) as well as the most common commands(commit, pull, push)
- [ ] Uses a common linter such as rubocop
- [ ] Can write code in at least one language.

### Level 2
#### Simple 	
- [ ] Creates simple method / functions that most static code analysers would accept.
- [ ] Makes clear prs
#### Test-driven
- [ ] Codes unit tests before code, writes acceptance tests.
#### Iterative
- [ ] Delivers working code with each commit.
#### Communication	
- [ ] Hosts retros.
- [ ] Can compose a PR and provide feedback on them.
#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Shows respect for client goals
- [ ] Encourages team to stay on a sustainable pace.
#### Technical skills
- [ ] Understands what differentiates their favourite language with others. Knows what the language is useful for and when it is not the best option.
- [ ] Understand where to place logic in their favourite framework.

### Level 3
#### Simple 
- [ ] -
#### Test-driven
- [ ] Can start a project from scratch and setup testing frameworks.
- [ ] Has an opinion about which frameworks to use.
- [ ] Can mock http requests and understands where these tests will potentially fail.
- [ ] Can integrate CI.	
#### Iterative	
- [ ] Works with red-green-refactor.
- [ ] Uses time management techniques
#### Communication	
- [ ] Is proficient with pair programming.
- [ ] Can write user stories.
- [ ] Can introduce a new member to the project. 
#### Respectful teammate	
- [ ] Actively participates in feedback for team members.
#### Technical skills
- [ ] Can write code in at least two technical areas (frontend, backend, digital infrastructure). 

### Level 4
#### Simple 
- [ ] Does not over optimize. Understands when code is "good-enough".
#### Test-driven	
- [ ] Makes use of stubbing and mocking.
- [ ] Understands tradeoffs of hitting the db. 
#### Iterative	
- [ ] Well-composed commit narratives in commit flows. 
#### Communication	
- [ ] Can help PM cultivate an Asana board.
- [ ] Understands kanban.
- [ ] Can teach juniors to pair program.
#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Communicate with PMs when goals are unattainable.
- [ ] Understands the difficulties that the team is going through and helps how they can.	
#### Technical skills
- [ ] Demonstrates ability to succeed in a wide range of complex situations across multiple axes: e.g. scale, uncertainty, interconnectedness.

### Level 5
#### Simple 	
- [ ] Extracts complex logic into small easy-to-follow classes/components.
#### Test-driven
- [ ] -
#### Iterative	
- [ ] Can guide an IPM and team reflection.
#### Communication	
- [ ] Aligns team on expectations.
- [ ] Identifies miscommunications and solves them before they become a problem.
#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Help dissolve tension when arises.
- [ ] Does not take "all" responsibilities. They let their teammates take responsibilities they care about.	
#### Technical skills
- [ ] Breaks down complex projects into simple systems that can be effectively built and maintained by less experienced developers.

### Level 6
#### Simple 	
- [ ] Has a clear understanding of long term maintenance costs and tradeoffs related to simplifying code
#### Test-driven	
- [ ] Understands the cost of maintaining tests. 
-- [ ] Can answer questions like: 
--- [ ] was that test worth it for the business? Should e2e tests be run in multiple browsers if we support multiple browsers with the product? Why or why not?
--- [ ] How could I have reduced costs of implementation or maintenance? 
--- [ ] How could I make a test more maintainable?
- [ ] Writes cost-effective tests.
#### Iterative
- [ ] Brings new working-methods that improve team performance.	
#### Communication	
- [ ] Works to define tasks in Asana and can mentor juniors in defining them.
- [ ] Can collaborate with client about estimates and prioritization. 
#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Respects the right of junior team members to own parts of the code.
- [ ] Can effectively run and explain 360 reviews.	
#### Technical skills
- [ ] Is recognized for high quality, impactful technical contributions.
