stack-guideline.md, before:

# Abtion stack
###### Or Ab-*stack*-tion!  🤦‍♂️
![abtion image](https://media.giphy.com/media/ZVik7pBtu9dNS/giphy.gif)


In Abtion we strive for the easiest and most efficient workflow.
This document is thought of being a resource we all can turn to if we get in doubt of how we deal with managing certain stuff, such as CI/CD.
Also, to make it easier to on-board new employees.


## Frontend
As Abtioneers we love React when working on the FE (Front-End), but we also care about Vue and are always curious about what exciting technologies might pop-up in the future. But for now most of our FE apps are built with React.

#### Testing
React and [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) make a great match, which is why we always test our React apps with Jest.

#### CI
So far we are using both [Travis](https://travis-ci.org/) and [Buddy](https://buddy.works/) - not at the same time of course  💩. 

With Buddy we can quickly create a pipeline and connect it to GitHub thanks to the easy to use UI - but it’s pretty much up to personal preference.

#### CD
We aim to host all of out FE apps on [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) - currently (July 2019) - most of our apps, backend and frontend apps are hosted on [Heroku](https://heroku.com/). But we find that Netlify provides a better development experience as well as an overall improved usability to the user, due to Netlify’s great services such as [CDN Edge](https://www.netlify.com/products/edge/), [Analytics](https://www.netlify.com/products/analytics/) , [Dev](https://www.netlify.com/products/dev/) and more.

During an active pull-request the CI will run dependencies, tests and whatnot. Along-side that Netlify will trigger and run a preview build. Netlify provides a deployment preview link, so that we can easily see new changes.

#### Monitoring
Maybe Sentry?

## Backend
Backend apps are built with Ruby on Rails and are hosted on [Heroku](https://heroku.com). Backend and/or Rails with React apps use a default [README.md](https://github.com/abtion/muffi/blob/master/README.example.md) which makes it easy to document the app during development.

#### Database
PostgreSQL

#### CI
Travis - how do we work with travis?

#### CD
Heroku provides review-apps. A review-app is a deployed app based on an active pull-request,
when a review-app has successfully been deployed, it provides a deployment link so we can see new changes - just like Netlify does as described in the Frontend->CD section

#### Preferred Heroku Add-ons
— [Rollbar](https://rollbar.com)

— Postgres

## WordPress
At Abtion we have our own WP(wordpress) theme called [Abtion-theme](https://github.com/abtion/abtion-theme) on GitHub. All WP sites are hosted on [Kinsta](https://kinsta.com/)

The theme uses Webpack 4 to compile SCSS and JS.

#### CI/CD
Currently we are not testing wordpress sites, but it is our goal to start doing that, as soon as we find a good way to do it.

We are building WordPress apps with our Buddy pipelines, like this [example](https://app.buddy.works/abtion/abtion-theme/pipelines) pipeline. 
Upon a successful run of our pipeline we deploy the changed files directly to the hosted site on Kinsta.

#### CLI
We have created our own shell script based on the [wp-cli](https://wp-cli.org/) to quickly create a wordpress site, install our default plugins and our Abtion-theme. The script can be found in this [repo](https://github.com/abtion/Wordpress-Scaffolding).

#### Plugins
— [ACF](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/)

— [Swift](https://swiftperformance.io/)

Commit message:

Update WordPress section
Updates the WordPress section to match with the new docker setup.

stack-guideline.md, after:

# Abtion stack
###### Or Ab-*stack*-tion!  🤦‍♂️
![abtion image](https://media.giphy.com/media/ZVik7pBtu9dNS/giphy.gif)


In Abtion we strive for the easiest and most efficient workflow.
This document is thought of being a resource we all can turn to if we get in doubt of how we deal with managing certain stuff, such as CI/CD.
Also, to make it easier to on-board new employees.


## Frontend
As Abtioneers we love React when working on the FE (Front-End), but we also care about Vue and are always curious about what exciting technologies might pop-up in the future. But for now most of our FE apps are built with React.

#### Testing
React and [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) make a great match, which is why we always test our React apps with Jest.

#### CI
So far we are using both [Travis](https://travis-ci.org/) and [Buddy](https://buddy.works/) - not at the same time of course  💩. 

With Buddy we can quickly create a pipeline and connect it to GitHub thanks to the easy to use UI - but it’s pretty much up to personal preference.

#### CD
We aim to host all of out FE apps on [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) - currently (July 2019) - most of our apps, backend and frontend apps are hosted on [Heroku](https://heroku.com/). But we find that Netlify provides a better development experience as well as an overall improved usability to the user, due to Netlify’s great services such as [CDN Edge](https://www.netlify.com/products/edge/), [Analytics](https://www.netlify.com/products/analytics/) , [Dev](https://www.netlify.com/products/dev/) and more.

During an active pull-request the CI will run dependencies, tests and whatnot. Along-side that Netlify will trigger and run a preview build. Netlify provides a deployment preview link, so that we can easily see new changes.

#### Monitoring
Maybe Sentry?

## Backend
Backend apps are built with Ruby on Rails and are hosted on [Heroku](https://heroku.com). Backend and/or Rails with React apps use a default [README.md](https://github.com/abtion/muffi/blob/master/README.example.md) which makes it easy to document the app during development.

#### Database
PostgreSQL

#### CI
Travis - how do we work with travis?

#### CD
Heroku provides review-apps. A review-app is a deployed app based on an active pull-request,
when a review-app has successfully been deployed, it provides a deployment link so we can see new changes - just like Netlify does as described in the Frontend->CD section

#### Preferred Heroku Add-ons
— [Rollbar](https://rollbar.com)

— Postgres

## WordPress
At Abtion we have our own docker setup and scripts to make wordpress development and deployment as easy and fun as possible.
We have documentation that will guide you though the docker setup, the official Abtion theme and what services we use.
All of our WordPress sites is hosted at [Kinsta](https://kinsta.com/).

Read the documentation [here](https://github.com/abtion/guidelines/tree/main/wordpress)
