career/em-ladder.md, before:

# Engineering Management Career Ladder
This career ladder serves to give an overview of how you can progress your
career at Abtion and become an Engineering Manager (EM).

As a prerequisite, we require people to have moved beyond level 2 on our
[individual contributor (IC) career
ladder](https://github.com/abtion/guidelines/blob/main/career/ladder.md) before
they can transition into a role as an Engineering Manager. This is required as
we believe it is important that you have grown your technical skills to a
certain level before you start leading highly technical individuals.

Engineering managers are expected to be able to check off most items under
"Impactful", "Simple", "Communication" and "Respectful teammate" for the
corresponding level in the [IC career
ladder](https://github.com/abtion/guidelines/blob/main/career/ladder.md).
Although you will not be evaluated on your ability to test highly complex logic,
we believe testing is an essential engineering practice that you will continue
honing and teaching.

While the engineering management track includes non-development tasks, it is
worth pointing out that most of your time will still be spent on development and
other client-focused work. You will gradually spend more time on managerial
tasks as you move up the career ladder but check the "Time expectation" section
under each level to see how your time will be split. EM-related tasks include,
but are not limited to, 360 reviews, 1-on-1s, administrative work and attending
engineering management meetings.

Any feedback on this career ladder is appreciated, and we encourage that you
make pull requests with suggestions for improvements.

## Level 3: Associate Engineering Manager
**Time expectation**: Associate Engineering Managers are expected to use about
20 percent of their time (~5.5 hours/week) on non-billable/EM-related tasks. The
remaining time will be spent on development or other activities related to
client projects.

### Impactful
- [ ] Manages a set of people consisting of approximately two direct reports.
- [ ] Identifies growth opportunities for their direct reports and proactively
  ensures that these opportunities are pursued.
- [ ] Adjusts processes and practices regularly to maximize the efficiency and
  performance of their team and/or direct reports.
- [ ] Consistently seeks to improve processes at the company such as interview
  practices, onboarding, defining roles, etc.

### Coaching and mentoring
- [ ] Provides direct reports, manager, product managers etc. with timely and
  actionable feedback.
- [ ] Motivates direct reports to keep them ascending the career ladder for both
  the IC and EM tracks and uses the career ladders to keep track of their
  progress.
- [ ] Coaches developers on how to set goals that push them out of their comfort
  zone and assists them in succeeding.
- [ ] Empowers direct reports to own their work.
- [ ] Ensures direct reports are aware of growth and learning opportunities and
  helps them leverage these.

### Management/HR
- [ ] Suggests compensation changes and manages promotions in collaboration with
  the CTO.
- [ ] Coordinates vacation with the direct report, product manager, traffic
  manager, or other relevant parties.
- [ ] Approves/suggests uses of the direct report's development budget and
  assists them with practical matters when necessary.
- [ ] Runs yearly 360 reviews with their direct reports.
- [ ] Partners closely with the CTO to set the direction for the team and
  proactively provides updates on progress.

### Communication and facilitation
- [ ] Attends early meetings with clients to set realistic expectations with
  sales and the client.
- [ ] Communicates strategy and progress within the team and to external
  stakeholders.
- [ ] Encourages effective meetings with clear agendas/purpose and actions.
- [ ] Resolves tension, interpersonal and technical conflicts within the team.
- [ ] Clearly communicates expectations.
- [ ] Ensures new hires are onboarded successfully in collaboration with
  relevant parties.

## Level 4: Engineering Manager
**Time expectation**: Engineering Managers are expected to use about 30 percent
of their time (~8 hours/week) on non-billable/EM-related tasks. The remaining
time will be spent on development or other activities related to client
projects.

### Impactful
- [ ] Manages a set of people consisting of approximately four direct reports.
- [ ] Has the required maturity to manage individual contributors at a higher
  skill level than themselves.

### Coaching and mentoring
- [ ] Deals with performance issues and misaligned expectations and understands
  their role in bringing an employee back on track.

### Management/HR
- TBD.

### Communication and facilitation
- [ ] Uses their experience to identify headcount needs when planning new
  projects.

## Level 5: Engineering Manager
**Time expectation**: Engineering Managers are expected to use about 40 percent
of their time (~10 hours/week) on non-billable/EM-related tasks. The remaining
time will be spent on development or other activities related to client
projects.

### Impactful
- [ ] Manages a set of people consisting of approximately six to eight direct
  reports.

### Coaching and mentoring
- TBD.

### Management/HR
- TBD.

### Communication and facilitation
- TBD.

## Level 6: Senior Engineering Manager
### Impactful
- [ ] Manages a set of people consisting of approximately eight or more direct
  reports.

### Coaching and mentoring
- TBD.

### Management/HR
- TBD.

### Communication and facilitation
- TBD.

Commit message:

Add point about hiring and interview process.

career/em-ladder.md, after:

# Engineering Management Career Ladder
This career ladder serves to give an overview of how you can progress your
career at Abtion and become an Engineering Manager (EM).

As a prerequisite, we require people to have moved beyond level 2 on our
[individual contributor (IC) career
ladder](https://github.com/abtion/guidelines/blob/main/career/ladder.md) before
they can transition into a role as an Engineering Manager. This is required as
we believe it is important that you have grown your technical skills to a
certain level before you start leading highly technical individuals.

Engineering managers are expected to be able to check off most items under
"Impactful", "Simple", "Communication" and "Respectful teammate" for the
corresponding level in the [IC career
ladder](https://github.com/abtion/guidelines/blob/main/career/ladder.md).
Although you will not be evaluated on your ability to test highly complex logic,
we believe testing is an essential engineering practice that you will continue
honing and teaching.

While the engineering management track includes non-development tasks, it is
worth pointing out that most of your time will still be spent on development and
other client-focused work. You will gradually spend more time on managerial
tasks as you move up the career ladder but check the "Time expectation" section
under each level to see how your time will be split. EM-related tasks include,
but are not limited to, 360 reviews, 1-on-1s, administrative work and attending
engineering management meetings.

Any feedback on this career ladder is appreciated, and we encourage that you
make pull requests with suggestions for improvements.

## Level 3: Associate Engineering Manager
**Time expectation**: Associate Engineering Managers are expected to use about
20 percent of their time (~5.5 hours/week) on non-billable/EM-related tasks. The
remaining time will be spent on development or other activities related to
client projects.

### Impactful
- [ ] Manages a set of people consisting of approximately two direct reports.
- [ ] Identifies growth opportunities for their direct reports and proactively
  ensures that these opportunities are pursued.
- [ ] Adjusts processes and practices regularly to maximize the efficiency and
  performance of their team and/or direct reports.
- [ ] Consistently seeks to improve processes at the company such as interview
  practices, onboarding, defining roles, etc.

### Coaching and mentoring
- [ ] Provides direct reports, manager, product managers etc. with timely and
  actionable feedback.
- [ ] Motivates direct reports to keep them ascending the career ladder for both
  the IC and EM tracks and uses the career ladders to keep track of their
  progress.
- [ ] Coaches developers on how to set goals that push them out of their comfort
  zone and assists them in succeeding.
- [ ] Empowers direct reports to own their work.
- [ ] Ensures direct reports are aware of growth and learning opportunities and
  helps them leverage these.

### Management/HR
- [ ] Suggests compensation changes and manages promotions in collaboration with
  the CTO.
- [ ] Coordinates vacation with the direct report, product manager, traffic
  manager, or other relevant parties.
- [ ] Approves/suggests uses of the direct report's development budget and
  assists them with practical matters when necessary.
- [ ] Runs yearly 360 reviews with their direct reports.
- [ ] Partners closely with the CTO to set the direction for the team and
  proactively provides updates on progress.

### Communication and facilitation
- [ ] Attends early meetings with clients to set realistic expectations with
  sales and the client.
- [ ] Communicates strategy and progress within the team and to external
  stakeholders.
- [ ] Encourages effective meetings with clear agendas/purpose and actions.
- [ ] Resolves tension, interpersonal and technical conflicts within the team.
- [ ] Clearly communicates expectations.
- [ ] Ensures new hires are onboarded successfully in collaboration with
  relevant parties.
- [ ] Drives and organizes the hiring/interview process in collaboration
  with the Executive Assistant.

## Level 4: Engineering Manager
**Time expectation**: Engineering Managers are expected to use about 30 percent
of their time (~8 hours/week) on non-billable/EM-related tasks. The remaining
time will be spent on development or other activities related to client
projects.

### Impactful
- [ ] Manages a set of people consisting of approximately four direct reports.
- [ ] Has the required maturity to manage individual contributors at a higher
  skill level than themselves.

### Coaching and mentoring
- [ ] Deals with performance issues and misaligned expectations and understands
  their role in bringing an employee back on track.

### Management/HR
- TBD.

### Communication and facilitation
- [ ] Uses their experience to identify headcount needs when planning new
  projects.

## Level 5: Engineering Manager
**Time expectation**: Engineering Managers are expected to use about 40 percent
of their time (~10 hours/week) on non-billable/EM-related tasks. The remaining
time will be spent on development or other activities related to client
projects.

### Impactful
- [ ] Manages a set of people consisting of approximately six to eight direct
  reports.

### Coaching and mentoring
- TBD.

### Management/HR
- TBD.

### Communication and facilitation
- TBD.

## Level 6: Senior Engineering Manager
### Impactful
- [ ] Manages a set of people consisting of approximately eight or more direct
  reports.

### Coaching and mentoring
- TBD.

### Management/HR
- TBD.

### Communication and facilitation
- TBD.
