career/software_engineer_progression_framework.md, before:

# Abtion Dev Career Ladder

This career ladder is a work in progress from dev leadership at Abtion. At a high level, a career ladder is a formal doc within a company that allows employees to advance their careers to higher levels of salary, responsibility, and authority. Once employees meet certain criteria, they are eligible to move into higher-level roles.

Our goal with the ladder is to provide a clear path for professional development and to have clear expectations regarding skills and salary at each level. As much as possible, we want people to see and take advantage of opportunities to grow here. To that end, we see this as a bit of a two-way contract: what we will provide to you in terms of growth, and for you, what you'll take on in learning. Each level has an associated level of experience. We do not use years of experience as the main method to determine someone's level. However, we acknowledge that relevant experience has value. To the talented engineers starting the journey, it also sets expectations on how long it takes to grow.

Please feel free to make PRs with suggestions. This is something that we welcome community feedback on!

Here are some examples of other career ladders:

[https://www.progression.fyi](https://www.progression.fyi)

## High-Level Company Values

1. Bonded by Love for Product
1. Continuous Delivery
1. Customer Comes First
1. Heavily Team Oriented
1. High Employee Retention
1. High-Quality Code Base
1. Open Communication
1. Pair-Programs

## Dev Values: Impactful, Simple, Test-Driven, Iterative, Communicative, Respectful, Skilled

### Level 1 - Associate Software Engineer

As an Associate Software Engineer, you demonstrate an ability to complete work on a task-level in one or multiple apps and an eagerness to learn and grow. You deliver working and well-tested code persistently, and you can identify when to reach out to more senior developers for guidance. Your colleagues recognize you for your clear growth mindset and your consistent focus on delivering business value.

Engineers usually spend around one year on this level.

#### Impactful

- [ ] Consistently complete work on a task-level within one or multiple apps.

#### Simple

- [ ] Are working on naming variables and learning to extract methods.

#### Test-driven

- [ ] Check that all tests pass before they merge into a shared branch.
- [ ] Can understand where test expectations are not met and fix some with the help of more senior developers.
- [ ] Can describe the testing pyramid and concepts around what makes a good test.
- [ ] Write “good” test descriptions: use nesting and clear contexts/assertions.

#### Iterative

- [ ] Understand red-green-refactor.

#### Communication

- [ ] Focus on building strong relationships with their team and direct manager.
- [ ] Proactively reach out for help when struggling with a task.
- [ ] Actively seek feedback to improve from colleagues and receive it well.
- [ ] Update Asana.
- [ ] Come prepared for meetings.
- [ ] Use time tracking tools and vacation notifications.

#### Respectful teammate

- [ ] Are on time for meetings.
- [ ] Care about their work.

#### Technical skills

- [ ] Know about the three main sections of a Git project(working, staging, repository) as well as the most common commands(commit, pull, push).
- [ ] Use a common linter such as rubocop.
- [ ] Write code in at least one language.
- [ ] Have broad knowledge of main CS + XP concepts.

### Level 2 - Software Engineer

As a Software Engineer, you reliably execute work and drive tasks in your area of expertise in collaboration with less experienced developers. You have an overview that allows you to always contextualize your work within the current milestone of a project, and you understand the strengths and weaknesses of different technologies. You use this understanding to your advantage when building new solutions for a client to provide business value faster. Product managers can confidently rely on you to identify unclear requirements and your ability to communicate promptly when issues arise.

On average, engineers spend 2 years on this level.

#### Impactful

- [ ] Consistently close tasks in their area of expertise collaborating with less experienced developers.

#### Simple

- [ ] Create simple methods / functions that most static code analysers would accept.
- [ ] Make single-feature PRs.

#### Test-driven

- [ ] Start to write unit tests before code. They write acceptance tests.
- [ ] Can write acceptance tests for existing code.
- [ ] Refactor test code: They extract methods and break up long tests.
- [ ] Use realistic data in tests.
- [ ] Understand the tradeoff between test isolation and test speed.
- [ ] Practice spiking if they don't know how to test something. Then set the spike aside once a general path is understood and write TDD from scratch.

#### Iterative

- [ ] Deliver working code with each commit.
- [ ] Write small, single-purpose commits.
- [ ] Write descriptions about decisions and features made for each commit/PR.

#### Communication

- [ ] Understand and can provide a high-level overview of the current milestone of a project.
- [ ] Identify unclear requirements and reach out to relevant stakeholders to clarify issues.
- [ ] Reliably do what they say they will, and communicate promptly if an issue arises.
- [ ] Host retros.
- [ ] Can compose a PR and provide feedback on them.
- [ ] Reliably track time on the appropriate category. They clarify with the relevant PM when needed and communicate with the team to ensure that time tracking is consistent.

#### Respectful teammate

- [ ] Show respect for client goals,
- [ ] Encourage their team to stay on a sustainable pace.

#### Technical skills

- [ ] Understand where to place logic in their favorite framework.
- [ ] Understand what differentiates their favorite language from others. They know what the language is useful for and when it is not the best option.

### Level 3 - Seasoned Software Engineer

As a Seasoned Software Engineer, you display a maturity that permeates every aspect of your work. You can handle work independently with close to no guidance from seniors, and you proactively unblock juniors when necessary. Your expertise in two areas or more is clear to your team, and you understand how to navigate several layers of the technical stack with ease. Product managers recognize you for your ability to prioritize work and distinguish unimportant details from critical tasks that deliver value to the client.

Engineers spend around 3 years on this level.

#### Impactful

- [ ] Drive tasks from internal meetings and park them nicely in internal acceptance.
- [ ] Require minimal guidance from seniors and can help unblock other developers when necessary.
- [ ] Distinguish between what work is relevant now, and what work can be tackled later.
- [ ] Push tasks forward in lack of complete context. They work with uncertainty.

#### Simple

- [ ] Are capable of prioritizing tasks. They avoid getting caught up in unimportant details (bike-shedding) and focus on delivering value to the client.

#### Test-driven

- [ ] Perform TDD over Test Last (TLD) nearly all the time.
- [ ] Can start a project from scratch and set up testing frameworks.
- [ ] Can mock HTTP requests and they understand where these tests will potentially fail.
- [ ] Have integrated projects with CI.
- [ ] Break systems into small testable units.
- [ ] Can write tests at different levels (end to end, integration, unit).
- [ ] Take edge cases into account.
- [ ] Care about test speed. They seek to run the test suite in less than a minute.
- [ ] Can implement parallelization but they know why that's a bandaid.

#### Iterative

- [ ] Work with red-green-refactor.
- [ ] Use time management techniques.
- [ ] Is comfortable with trunk-based development and use techniques such as feature flags.

#### Communication

- [ ] Understand and can provide a high-level overview of a project.
- [ ] Consistently facilitate communication with project managers/product owners for one or multiple apps.
- [ ] Are proficient with pair programming.
- [ ] Can write user stories.
- [ ] Introduce new members to the project.
- [ ] Communicate with PMs when goals are unattainable.

#### Respectful teammate

- [ ] Have taught other developers to pair program.
- [ ] Actively participate in feedback for team members.
- [ ] Proactively seek out to unblock colleagues when they are struggling with a task including those that are outside their area of expertise.

#### Technical skills

- [ ] Can write code in at least two technical areas (frontend, backend, digital infrastructure). They ensure the completion of the tasks in their two areas of expertise.
- [ ] Can debug issues occurring across multiple levels of the stack.

### Level 4 - Senior Software Engineer

As a Senior Software Engineer, you consistently show an ability to handle highly complex technical challenges across multiple axes without guidance. Your technical decisions are always guided by data and based on the highest value for all relevant parties. Your contributions are based on several years of experience where you had the chance to see the long-term effects on solutions you've designed and built. Product managers can rely on you when estimating the scale of a larger product, and your track record of turning big challenges into successes is apparent to the entire organization.

Although relevant experience varies significantly, engineers have around 6 years of experience when reaching this level.

#### Impactful

- [ ] Partner with project managers and designers to drive technical decisions based on the highest output for all parties' needs.
- [ ] Drive tasks from client research to client acceptance.
- [ ] Have a track record of embracing big challenges and turning them into successes.

#### Simple

- [ ] Have a long track of delivering value to the client, finding the right balance between maintenance work and delivering features.
- [ ] Are recognized as someone who can solve a bottleneck when needed or reduce technical debt.
- [ ] Consistently demonstrate an understanding of the tradeoffs between technical, analytical, and product needs and lead to solutions that take all of these needs into account.

#### Test-driven

- [ ] Have tested challenging parts of the codebase as third party integrations and SSO.
- [ ] Use testing pain as a prompt to write better code.
- [ ] Make use of stubbing and mocking/understands tradeoffs of hitting the DB.
- [ ] Value and can speak to examples of high cohesion, low coupling.
- [ ] Frequently work with other engineers to reinforce a culture of testing and TDD.
- [ ] Identify tests that are hard to maintain and fix them proactively.
- [ ] Write performance tests.

#### Iterative

#### Communication

- [ ] Understand and can provide a detailed overview of a project.
- [ ] Focus on building strong relationships with their team, direct manager, and other seniors across the organization.
- [ ] Align expectations on their team.
- [ ] Are recognized by PMs as someone who keeps the Asana board relevant. Internally, they act as PMs when needed.
- [ ] Have taught several developers to pair program.

#### Respectful teammate

- [ ] Make others better through code reviews, documentation, technical guidance, and mentoring.
- [ ] Understand the difficulties that the team is going through and help how they can.
- [ ] Respect the right of junior team members to own parts of the code.

#### Technical skills

- [ ] Demonstrate the ability to succeed in a wide range of complex situations across multiple axes: e.g., scale, uncertainty, interconnectedness.
- [ ] Research and propose new technologies to the team(s).
- [ ] Are known as a go-to expert in one area of technology: e.g. browser rendering or TDD.

### Level 5 - Lead Software Engineer

As a Lead Software Engineer, you demonstrate that you are able to lead your team from initial client meeting to delivery, and product managers trust you in assisting them on a day-to-day basis. Your team recognizes you as a strong technical leader that proactively identifies and clarifies issues whether technical or business-related, and you consistently deliver high-value solutions that are well-architected and can be easily maintained over time.

Highly experienced engineers form this level with a median of 10 years of experience in the group.

#### Impactful

- [ ] Are recognized as a helpful consultant that consistently delivers high-value solutions for real problems.
- [ ] Review projects critically and ensure that they are divided into parts that can be solved in isolation most of the time.
- [ ] Consistently show initiative and identify areas of improvements for themselves and the team.

#### Simple

- [ ] Create architecture that enables many potential futures without knowing exactly what the future is.
- [ ] Understand the broad architecture of the entire system and are capable of explaining the technical decisions taken by the team.

#### Test-driven

- [ ] Write tests in multiple languages.
- [ ] Can speak from experience on how TDD influences class design.
- [ ] Are able to identify and be comfortable deleting tests that no longer add value.
- [ ] Think about [F.I.R.S.T](https://tasdikrahman.me/2019/03/13/f-i-r-s-t-principles-of-testing/) tests.

#### Iterative

- [ ] Have guided IPMs for a long period of time. Internally, they are known as someone who drives projects.

#### Communication

- [ ] Proactively ensure that the relevant stakeholders are informed if the team is running into issues.
- [ ] Identify miscommunications and solve them before they become a problem.
- [ ] Identify and propose strategies around technical problems affecting their team and communicate standards.

#### Respectful teammate

- [ ] Help dissolve tension when it arises.
- [ ] Do not take "all" responsibilities. They let their teammates take the responsibilities they care about.

#### Technical skills

- [ ] Have turned around highly complex projects so that less experienced developers can collaborate on them. They are recognized as someone who knows how to transform a legacy system into a successful project.
- [ ] Are sought out for technical guidance.
- [ ] Anticipate technical issues at a product level and work with design to avoid them.

### Level 6 - Principal Software Engineer

As a Principal Software Engineer, you play a critical role in how engineering at Abtion operates, and have a significant ownership in areas such as tooling, scalability, security, processes, design etc. Throughout your long career at Abtion, you have established yourself as a technical leader with a cross-organizational mindset and a strong working relationship with other stakeholders in the company. Your technical prowess is clear, and you have driven impactful technical contributions consistently that set good examples for how products should be built.

#### Impactful

- [ ] Play a key role in the technical direction of the company and have introduced positive changes across multiple teams.
- [ ] Focus on the growth of their team's productivity and career.

#### Simple

- [ ] Have solved bottlenecks in several projects throughout the years, making themselves replaceable after a planned period of time.
- [ ] Have mentored several teams on how to reduce the complexity of projects, services, and processes to get more done with less work.
- [ ] Excel at getting teams to focus on delivering high-impact value on the projects they mentor.

#### Test-driven

- [ ] Have succesfully laid out the test strategy on legacy projects. They have changed systems from unreliable to reliable.
- [ ] Answer philosophical/economic questions like: was that test worth it for the business? Should e2e tests be run in multiple browsers if we support multiple browsers with the product? Why or why not?
- [ ] Facilitate dialog around reduced costs of implementation or maintenance with a team.
- [ ] Support PMs in explaining the long term benefits of testing on client projects.
- [ ] Implement security tests.

#### Iterative

- [ ] Have brought several new working-methods that dramatically improve the overall company performance.

#### Communication

- [ ] Provide executives with high-level guidance on technical decisions when necessary.
- [ ] Collaborate with a client and sales about high-level estimates and prioritization.
- [ ] Collaborate with sales about high-level estimates and prioritization.
- [ ] Have a long track record of creating a plan to simplify complex apps, that the team can implement.

#### Respectful teammate

- [ ] Mentor other engineers to reach their level (and pass them).

#### Technical skills

- [ ] Are recognized for their high-quality, impactful technical contributions.
- [ ] Have a record of creating improvements in stability or performance for company-critical projects.

Commit message:

Progression Framework: Rename all occurences of Career Ladder

career/software_engineer_progression_framework.md, after:

# Abtion Dev Progression Framework

This progression framework is a work in progress from dev leadership at Abtion. At a high level, a progression framework is a formal doc within a company that allows employees to advance their careers to higher levels of salary, responsibility, and authority. Once employees meet certain criteria, they are eligible to move into higher-level roles.

Our goal with the ladder is to provide a clear path for professional development and to have clear expectations regarding skills and salary at each level. As much as possible, we want people to see and take advantage of opportunities to grow here. To that end, we see this as a bit of a two-way contract: what we will provide to you in terms of growth, and for you, what you'll take on in learning. Each level has an associated level of experience. We do not use years of experience as the main method to determine someone's level. However, we acknowledge that relevant experience has value. To the talented engineers starting the journey, it also sets expectations on how long it takes to grow.

Please feel free to make PRs with suggestions. This is something that we welcome community feedback on!

Here are some examples of other progression frameworks:

[https://www.progression.fyi](https://www.progression.fyi)

## High-Level Company Values

1. Bonded by Love for Product
1. Continuous Delivery
1. Customer Comes First
1. Heavily Team Oriented
1. High Employee Retention
1. High-Quality Code Base
1. Open Communication
1. Pair-Programs

## Dev Values: Impactful, Simple, Test-Driven, Iterative, Communicative, Respectful, Skilled

### Level 1 - Associate Software Engineer

As an Associate Software Engineer, you demonstrate an ability to complete work on a task-level in one or multiple apps and an eagerness to learn and grow. You deliver working and well-tested code persistently, and you can identify when to reach out to more senior developers for guidance. Your colleagues recognize you for your clear growth mindset and your consistent focus on delivering business value.

Engineers usually spend around one year on this level.

#### Impactful

- [ ] Consistently complete work on a task-level within one or multiple apps.

#### Simple

- [ ] Are working on naming variables and learning to extract methods.

#### Test-driven

- [ ] Check that all tests pass before they merge into a shared branch.
- [ ] Can understand where test expectations are not met and fix some with the help of more senior developers.
- [ ] Can describe the testing pyramid and concepts around what makes a good test.
- [ ] Write “good” test descriptions: use nesting and clear contexts/assertions.

#### Iterative

- [ ] Understand red-green-refactor.

#### Communication

- [ ] Focus on building strong relationships with their team and direct manager.
- [ ] Proactively reach out for help when struggling with a task.
- [ ] Actively seek feedback to improve from colleagues and receive it well.
- [ ] Update Asana.
- [ ] Come prepared for meetings.
- [ ] Use time tracking tools and vacation notifications.

#### Respectful teammate

- [ ] Are on time for meetings.
- [ ] Care about their work.

#### Technical skills

- [ ] Know about the three main sections of a Git project(working, staging, repository) as well as the most common commands(commit, pull, push).
- [ ] Use a common linter such as rubocop.
- [ ] Write code in at least one language.
- [ ] Have broad knowledge of main CS + XP concepts.

### Level 2 - Software Engineer

As a Software Engineer, you reliably execute work and drive tasks in your area of expertise in collaboration with less experienced developers. You have an overview that allows you to always contextualize your work within the current milestone of a project, and you understand the strengths and weaknesses of different technologies. You use this understanding to your advantage when building new solutions for a client to provide business value faster. Product managers can confidently rely on you to identify unclear requirements and your ability to communicate promptly when issues arise.

On average, engineers spend 2 years on this level.

#### Impactful

- [ ] Consistently close tasks in their area of expertise collaborating with less experienced developers.

#### Simple

- [ ] Create simple methods / functions that most static code analysers would accept.
- [ ] Make single-feature PRs.

#### Test-driven

- [ ] Start to write unit tests before code. They write acceptance tests.
- [ ] Can write acceptance tests for existing code.
- [ ] Refactor test code: They extract methods and break up long tests.
- [ ] Use realistic data in tests.
- [ ] Understand the tradeoff between test isolation and test speed.
- [ ] Practice spiking if they don't know how to test something. Then set the spike aside once a general path is understood and write TDD from scratch.

#### Iterative

- [ ] Deliver working code with each commit.
- [ ] Write small, single-purpose commits.
- [ ] Write descriptions about decisions and features made for each commit/PR.

#### Communication

- [ ] Understand and can provide a high-level overview of the current milestone of a project.
- [ ] Identify unclear requirements and reach out to relevant stakeholders to clarify issues.
- [ ] Reliably do what they say they will, and communicate promptly if an issue arises.
- [ ] Host retros.
- [ ] Can compose a PR and provide feedback on them.
- [ ] Reliably track time on the appropriate category. They clarify with the relevant PM when needed and communicate with the team to ensure that time tracking is consistent.

#### Respectful teammate

- [ ] Show respect for client goals,
- [ ] Encourage their team to stay on a sustainable pace.

#### Technical skills

- [ ] Understand where to place logic in their favorite framework.
- [ ] Understand what differentiates their favorite language from others. They know what the language is useful for and when it is not the best option.

### Level 3 - Seasoned Software Engineer

As a Seasoned Software Engineer, you display a maturity that permeates every aspect of your work. You can handle work independently with close to no guidance from seniors, and you proactively unblock juniors when necessary. Your expertise in two areas or more is clear to your team, and you understand how to navigate several layers of the technical stack with ease. Product managers recognize you for your ability to prioritize work and distinguish unimportant details from critical tasks that deliver value to the client.

Engineers spend around 3 years on this level.

#### Impactful

- [ ] Drive tasks from internal meetings and park them nicely in internal acceptance.
- [ ] Require minimal guidance from seniors and can help unblock other developers when necessary.
- [ ] Distinguish between what work is relevant now, and what work can be tackled later.
- [ ] Push tasks forward in lack of complete context. They work with uncertainty.

#### Simple

- [ ] Are capable of prioritizing tasks. They avoid getting caught up in unimportant details (bike-shedding) and focus on delivering value to the client.

#### Test-driven

- [ ] Perform TDD over Test Last (TLD) nearly all the time.
- [ ] Can start a project from scratch and set up testing frameworks.
- [ ] Can mock HTTP requests and they understand where these tests will potentially fail.
- [ ] Have integrated projects with CI.
- [ ] Break systems into small testable units.
- [ ] Can write tests at different levels (end to end, integration, unit).
- [ ] Take edge cases into account.
- [ ] Care about test speed. They seek to run the test suite in less than a minute.
- [ ] Can implement parallelization but they know why that's a bandaid.

#### Iterative

- [ ] Work with red-green-refactor.
- [ ] Use time management techniques.
- [ ] Is comfortable with trunk-based development and use techniques such as feature flags.

#### Communication

- [ ] Understand and can provide a high-level overview of a project.
- [ ] Consistently facilitate communication with project managers/product owners for one or multiple apps.
- [ ] Are proficient with pair programming.
- [ ] Can write user stories.
- [ ] Introduce new members to the project.
- [ ] Communicate with PMs when goals are unattainable.

#### Respectful teammate

- [ ] Have taught other developers to pair program.
- [ ] Actively participate in feedback for team members.
- [ ] Proactively seek out to unblock colleagues when they are struggling with a task including those that are outside their area of expertise.

#### Technical skills

- [ ] Can write code in at least two technical areas (frontend, backend, digital infrastructure). They ensure the completion of the tasks in their two areas of expertise.
- [ ] Can debug issues occurring across multiple levels of the stack.

### Level 4 - Senior Software Engineer

As a Senior Software Engineer, you consistently show an ability to handle highly complex technical challenges across multiple axes without guidance. Your technical decisions are always guided by data and based on the highest value for all relevant parties. Your contributions are based on several years of experience where you had the chance to see the long-term effects on solutions you've designed and built. Product managers can rely on you when estimating the scale of a larger product, and your track record of turning big challenges into successes is apparent to the entire organization.

Although relevant experience varies significantly, engineers have around 6 years of experience when reaching this level.

#### Impactful

- [ ] Partner with project managers and designers to drive technical decisions based on the highest output for all parties' needs.
- [ ] Drive tasks from client research to client acceptance.
- [ ] Have a track record of embracing big challenges and turning them into successes.

#### Simple

- [ ] Have a long track of delivering value to the client, finding the right balance between maintenance work and delivering features.
- [ ] Are recognized as someone who can solve a bottleneck when needed or reduce technical debt.
- [ ] Consistently demonstrate an understanding of the tradeoffs between technical, analytical, and product needs and lead to solutions that take all of these needs into account.

#### Test-driven

- [ ] Have tested challenging parts of the codebase as third party integrations and SSO.
- [ ] Use testing pain as a prompt to write better code.
- [ ] Make use of stubbing and mocking/understands tradeoffs of hitting the DB.
- [ ] Value and can speak to examples of high cohesion, low coupling.
- [ ] Frequently work with other engineers to reinforce a culture of testing and TDD.
- [ ] Identify tests that are hard to maintain and fix them proactively.
- [ ] Write performance tests.

#### Iterative

#### Communication

- [ ] Understand and can provide a detailed overview of a project.
- [ ] Focus on building strong relationships with their team, direct manager, and other seniors across the organization.
- [ ] Align expectations on their team.
- [ ] Are recognized by PMs as someone who keeps the Asana board relevant. Internally, they act as PMs when needed.
- [ ] Have taught several developers to pair program.

#### Respectful teammate

- [ ] Make others better through code reviews, documentation, technical guidance, and mentoring.
- [ ] Understand the difficulties that the team is going through and help how they can.
- [ ] Respect the right of junior team members to own parts of the code.

#### Technical skills

- [ ] Demonstrate the ability to succeed in a wide range of complex situations across multiple axes: e.g., scale, uncertainty, interconnectedness.
- [ ] Research and propose new technologies to the team(s).
- [ ] Are known as a go-to expert in one area of technology: e.g. browser rendering or TDD.

### Level 5 - Lead Software Engineer

As a Lead Software Engineer, you demonstrate that you are able to lead your team from initial client meeting to delivery, and product managers trust you in assisting them on a day-to-day basis. Your team recognizes you as a strong technical leader that proactively identifies and clarifies issues whether technical or business-related, and you consistently deliver high-value solutions that are well-architected and can be easily maintained over time.

Highly experienced engineers form this level with a median of 10 years of experience in the group.

#### Impactful

- [ ] Are recognized as a helpful consultant that consistently delivers high-value solutions for real problems.
- [ ] Review projects critically and ensure that they are divided into parts that can be solved in isolation most of the time.
- [ ] Consistently show initiative and identify areas of improvements for themselves and the team.

#### Simple

- [ ] Create architecture that enables many potential futures without knowing exactly what the future is.
- [ ] Understand the broad architecture of the entire system and are capable of explaining the technical decisions taken by the team.

#### Test-driven

- [ ] Write tests in multiple languages.
- [ ] Can speak from experience on how TDD influences class design.
- [ ] Are able to identify and be comfortable deleting tests that no longer add value.
- [ ] Think about [F.I.R.S.T](https://tasdikrahman.me/2019/03/13/f-i-r-s-t-principles-of-testing/) tests.

#### Iterative

- [ ] Have guided IPMs for a long period of time. Internally, they are known as someone who drives projects.

#### Communication

- [ ] Proactively ensure that the relevant stakeholders are informed if the team is running into issues.
- [ ] Identify miscommunications and solve them before they become a problem.
- [ ] Identify and propose strategies around technical problems affecting their team and communicate standards.

#### Respectful teammate

- [ ] Help dissolve tension when it arises.
- [ ] Do not take "all" responsibilities. They let their teammates take the responsibilities they care about.

#### Technical skills

- [ ] Have turned around highly complex projects so that less experienced developers can collaborate on them. They are recognized as someone who knows how to transform a legacy system into a successful project.
- [ ] Are sought out for technical guidance.
- [ ] Anticipate technical issues at a product level and work with design to avoid them.

### Level 6 - Principal Software Engineer

As a Principal Software Engineer, you play a critical role in how engineering at Abtion operates, and have a significant ownership in areas such as tooling, scalability, security, processes, design etc. Throughout your long career at Abtion, you have established yourself as a technical leader with a cross-organizational mindset and a strong working relationship with other stakeholders in the company. Your technical prowess is clear, and you have driven impactful technical contributions consistently that set good examples for how products should be built.

#### Impactful

- [ ] Play a key role in the technical direction of the company and have introduced positive changes across multiple teams.
- [ ] Focus on the growth of their team's productivity and career.

#### Simple

- [ ] Have solved bottlenecks in several projects throughout the years, making themselves replaceable after a planned period of time.
- [ ] Have mentored several teams on how to reduce the complexity of projects, services, and processes to get more done with less work.
- [ ] Excel at getting teams to focus on delivering high-impact value on the projects they mentor.

#### Test-driven

- [ ] Have succesfully laid out the test strategy on legacy projects. They have changed systems from unreliable to reliable.
- [ ] Answer philosophical/economic questions like: was that test worth it for the business? Should e2e tests be run in multiple browsers if we support multiple browsers with the product? Why or why not?
- [ ] Facilitate dialog around reduced costs of implementation or maintenance with a team.
- [ ] Support PMs in explaining the long term benefits of testing on client projects.
- [ ] Implement security tests.

#### Iterative

- [ ] Have brought several new working-methods that dramatically improve the overall company performance.

#### Communication

- [ ] Provide executives with high-level guidance on technical decisions when necessary.
- [ ] Collaborate with a client and sales about high-level estimates and prioritization.
- [ ] Collaborate with sales about high-level estimates and prioritization.
- [ ] Have a long track record of creating a plan to simplify complex apps, that the team can implement.

#### Respectful teammate

- [ ] Mentor other engineers to reach their level (and pass them).

#### Technical skills

- [ ] Are recognized for their high-quality, impactful technical contributions.
- [ ] Have a record of creating improvements in stability or performance for company-critical projects.
