career/software_engineer_ladder.md, before:

# Abtion Dev Career Ladder

This career ladder is a work in progress from dev leadership at Abtion. At a high level, a career ladder is a formal doc within a company that allows employees to advance their careers to higher levels of salary, responsibility, and authority. Once employees meet certain criteria, they are eligible to move into higher-level roles.

Our goal with the ladder is to provide a clear path for professional development and to have clear expectations regarding skills and salary at each level. As much as possible, we want people to see and take advantage of opportunities to grow here. To that end, we see this as a bit of a two-way contract: what we will provide to you in terms of growth, and for you, what you'll take on in learning.

Please feel free to make PRs with suggestions. This is something that we welcome community feedback on!

Here are some examples of other career ladders:

[https://www.progression.fyi](https://www.progression.fyi)

## High-Level Company Values
1. Bonded by Love for Product
1. Continuous Delivery
1. Customer Comes First
1. Heavily Team Oriented
1. High Employee Retention
1. High-Quality Code Base
1. Open Communication
1. Pair-Programs

## Dev Values: Impactful, Simple, Test-Driven, Iterative, Communicative, Respectful, Skilled

### Level 1 - Associate Software Engineer
As an Associate Software Engineer, you demonstrate an ability to complete work
on a task-level in one or multiple apps and an eagerness to learn and grow. You
deliver working and well-tested code persistently, and you can identify when to
reach out to more senior developers for guidance. Your colleagues recognize you
for your clear growth mindset and your consistent focus on delivering business
value.

#### Impactful
- [ ] Consistently completes work on a task-level within one or multiple apps.

#### Simple
- [ ] Is working on naming variables and learning to extract methods.

#### Test-driven
- [ ] Checks that all tests pass before merging into a shared branch.
- [ ] Can understand where test expectations are not met and fix some with the help of more senior developers.
- [ ] Can describe the testing pyramid and concepts around what makes a good test.
- [ ] Writes “good” test descriptions: uses nesting and clear contexts/assertions

#### Iterative
- [ ] Understands red-green-refactor.

#### Communication
- [ ] Focuses on building strong relationships with their team and direct
  manager.
- [ ] Proactively reaches out for help when struggling with a task.
- [ ] Actively seeks feedback to improve from colleagues and receives it well.
- [ ] Updates Asana.
- [ ] Comes prepared for meetings.
- [ ] Uses time tracking tools and vacation notifications.

#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] On time for meetings.
- [ ] Cares about their work.

#### Technical skills
- [ ] Knows about the three main sections of a Git project(working, staging, repository) as well as the most common commands(commit, pull, push)
- [ ] Uses a common linter such as rubocop
- [ ] Writes code in at least one language.
- [ ] Broad knowledge of main CS + XP concepts.

### Level 2 - Software Engineer
As a Software Engineer, you reliably execute work and drive tasks in your area
of expertise in collaboration with less experienced developers. You have an
overview that allows you to always contextualize your work within the current
milestone of a project, and you understand the strengths and weaknesses of
different technologies. You use this understanding to your advantage when
building new solutions for a client to provide business value faster. Product
managers can confidently rely on you to identify unclear requirements and your
ability to communicate promptly when issues arise.

#### Impactful
- [ ] Consistently closes tasks in their area of expertise collaborating with
  less experienced developers.

#### Simple
- [ ] Creates simple method / functions that most static code analysers would accept.
- [ ] Makes clear prs

#### Test-driven
- [ ] Starts to write unit tests before code, writes acceptance tests.
- [ ] Can write "acceptance" tests for existing code.
- [ ] Refactors test code: extracts methods, breaks up long tests
- [ ] Uses evident data in tests.
- [ ] Understands the tradeoff between test isolation and test speed.
- [ ] Starts practicing spiking if they don't know how to test something. Then sets the spike aside once a general path is understood and writes from scratch TDD.

#### Iterative
- [ ] Delivers working code with each commit.

#### Communication
- [ ] Understands and can provide a high-level overview of the current milestone
  of a project.
- [ ] Focuses on building strong relationships with their team, direct manager,
  and project manager/product owner.
- [ ] Identifies unclear requirements and reaches out to relevant stakeholders
  to clarify issues.
- [ ] Reliably do what they say they will, and communicates promptly if an issue
  arises.
- [ ] Hosts retros.
- [ ] Can compose a PR and provide feedback on them.
- [ ] Reliably tracks time on the appropriate category. Clarifies with the relevant PM when needed and communicates with the team to ensure that time tracking is consistent.

#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Shows respect for client goals
- [ ] Encourages team to stay on a sustainable pace.

#### Technical skills
- [ ] Understands what differentiates their favorite language from others. Knows what the language is useful for and when it is not the best option.
- [ ] Understand where to place logic in their favorite framework.

### Level 3 - Software Engineer
As a Software Engineer, you display a maturity that permeates every aspect of
your work. You can handle work independently with close to no guidance from
seniors, and you proactively unblock juniors when necessary. Your expertise in
two areas or more is clear to your team, and you understand how to navigate
several layers of the technical stack with ease. Product managers recognize you
for your ability to prioritize work and distinguish unimportant details from
critical tasks that deliver value to the client.

#### Impactful
- [ ] Drives tasks from internal meetings and parks them nicely in internal acceptance.
- [ ] Requires minimal guidance from seniors and can help unblock other developers when
  necessary.
- [ ] Distinguishes between what work is relevant now, and what work can be
  tackled later.
- [ ] Pushes tasks forward in lack of complete context. Works with uncertainty.

#### Simple
- [ ] Capable of prioritizing tasks. Avoids getting caught up in unimportant details and focuses on delivering value to the client (avoids bike-shedding).

#### Test-driven
- [ ] Performs TDD over Test Last (TLD) nearly all the time.
- [ ] Can start a project from scratch and set up testing frameworks.
- [ ] Can mock HTTP requests and understands where these tests will potentially fail.
- [ ] Has integrated projects with CI.
- [ ] Breaks systems into small testable units.
- [ ] Can write tests at different levels (end to end, integration, unit)
- [ ] Correctly sets boundary conditions when testing.
- [ ] Cares about test speed. Can implement parallelization but knows why that's a bandaid. Seeks to keep the test suite under a minute.

#### Iterative
- [ ] Works with red-green-refactor.
- [ ] Uses time management techniques

#### Communication
- [ ] Understands and can provide a high-level overview of a project.
- [ ] Consistently facilitates communication with project managers/product
  owners for one or multiple apps.
- [ ] Is proficient with pair programming.
- [ ] Can write user stories.
- [ ] Introduces new members to the project.

#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Has taught other developers to pair program.
- [ ] Actively participates in feedback for team members.
- [ ] Proactively seeks out to unblock colleagues when they are struggling with
  a task including those that are outside their area of expertise.

#### Technical skills
- [ ] Can write code in at least two technical areas (frontend, backend, digital infrastructure). Ensures the completion of the tasks in their two areas of expertise.
- [ ] Can debug issues occurring across multiple levels of the stack.

### Level 4 - Senior Software Engineer
As a Senior Software Engineer, you consistently show an ability to handle highly
complex technical challenges across multiple axes without guidance. Your
technical decisions are always guided by data and based on the highest value for
all relevant parties. Your contributions are based on several years of experience where you had the chance to see the long-term effects on solutions you've designed and built. Product managers can rely on you when estimating the scale of a larger product, and your track record of turning big challenges into
successes is apparent to the entire organization.

#### Impactful
- [ ] Partners with project managers and designers to drive technical decisions based on the highest output for all parties' needs.
- [ ] Drives tasks from client research to client acceptance.
- [ ] Has a track record of embracing big challenges and turning them into
  successes.

#### Simple
- [ ] Has a long track of delivering value to the client, finding the right balance between maintenance work and delivering features. They are recognized as someone who can solve a bottleneck when needed or reduce technical debt.
- [ ] Consistently demonstrates an understanding of the tradeoffs between technical, analytical, and product needs and leads to solutions that take all of these needs into account.

#### Test-driven
- [ ] Has tested challenging parts of the codebase as third party integrations and SSO.
- [ ] Uses testing pain as a prompt to write better code.
- [ ] Makes use of stubbing and mocking/understands tradeoffs of hitting the DB.
- [ ] Values and can speak to examples of high cohesion, low coupling.
- [ ] Frequently works with other engineers to reinforce a culture of testing and TDD.
- [ ] Identifies tests that are hard to maintain and fixes them proactively.
- [ ] Writes performance tests

#### Iterative
- [ ] Well-composed commit narratives in commit flows.

#### Communication
- [ ] Understands and can provide a detailed overview of a project.
- [ ] Focuses on building strong relationships with their team, direct
  manager, and other seniors across the organization.
- [ ] Aligns team on expectations.
- [ ] PMs recognize them as someone who keeps the Asana board relevant. Internally, they act as PMs when needed.
- [ ] Have taught several developers to pair program.

#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Makes others better through code reviews, thorough documentation, technical guidance, and mentoring.
- [ ] Communicate with PMs when goals are unattainable.
- [ ] Understands the difficulties that the team is going through and helps how they can.
- [ ] Respects the right of junior team members to own parts of the code.

#### Technical skills
- [ ] Demonstrates the ability to succeed in a wide range of complex situations across multiple axes: e.g., scale, uncertainty, interconnectedness.
- [ ] Researches and proposes new technologies to the team(s).
- [ ] Is known as a go-to expert in one area of technology: e.g. browser rendering or TDD.

### Level 5 - Senior Software Engineer
As a Senior Software Engineer, you demonstrate that you are able to lead your
team from initial client meeting to delivery, and product managers trust you in
assisting them on a day-to-day basis. Your team recognizes you as a strong
technical leader that proactively identifies and clarifies issues whether
technical or business-related, and you consistently deliver high-value solutions
that are well-architected and can be easily maintained over time.

#### Impactful
- [ ] Is recognized as a helpful consultant that consistently delivers high-value solutions for real problems.
- [ ] Reviews projects critically and ensures that they are divided into parts
  that can be solved in isolation most of the time.
- [ ] Consistently shows initiative and identifies areas of improvements for
  themselves and the team.

#### Simple
- [ ] Creates architecture that enables many potential futures without knowing exactly what the future is.
- [ ] Understands the broad architecture of the entire system and is capable of explaining the technical decisions taken by the team.

#### Test-driven
- [ ] Writes tests in multiple languages
- [ ] Can speak from experience on how TDD influences class design.
- [ ] Able to identify and be comfortable deleting tests that no longer add value
- [ ] Thinks about [F.I.R.S.T](https://tasdikrahman.me/2019/03/13/f-i-r-s-t-principles-of-testing/) tests

#### Iterative
- [ ] Has guided IPMs for a long period of time. Internally, they are known as someone who drives projects. 

#### Communication
- [ ] Ensures proactively that the relevant stakeholders are informed if the
  team is running into issues.
- [ ] Identifies miscommunications and solves them before they become a problem.
- [ ] Identifies and proposes strategies around technical problems affecting their team and communicates standards.

#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Help dissolve tension when it arises.
- [ ] Does not take "all" responsibilities. They let their teammates take the responsibilities they care about.

#### Technical skills
- [ ] Has turned around highly complex projects so that less experienced developers could collaborate on them. They are recognized for someone who knows how to transform a legacy system into a successful project.
- [ ] Sought out for technical guidance.
- [ ] Anticipates technical issues at a product level and works with design to avoid them.

### Level 6 - Principal Software Engineer
As a Principal Software Engineer, you play a critical role in how engineering at
Abtion operates, and have a significant ownership in areas such as tooling,
scalability, security, processes, design etc. Throughout your long career at
Abtion, you have established yourself as a technical leader with a
cross-organizational mindset and a strong working relationship with other
stakeholders in the company. Your technical prowess is clear, and you have
driven impactful technical contributions consistently that set good examples for
how products should be built.

#### Impactful
- [ ] Plays a key role in the technical direction of the company and has
  introduced positive changes across multiple teams.
- [ ] Focuses on the growth of their team's productivity and career.

#### Simple
- [ ] Has solved bottlenecks in several projects throughout the years, making themselves replaceable after a planned period of time.
- [ ] Has mentored several teams on how to reduce the complexity of projects, services, and processes to get more done with less work.
- [ ] Excels at getting teams to focus on delivering high-impact value on the projects they mentor.

#### Test-driven
- [ ] Has succesfully laid out the test strategy on legacy projects. Has changed systems from unreliable to reliable. 
- [ ] Answers philosophical/economic questions like: was that test worth it for the business? Should e2e tests be run in multiple browsers if we support multiple browsers with the product? Why or why not?
- [ ] Facilitates dialog around reduced costs of implementation or maintenance with a team.
- [ ] Supports PMs in explaining the long term benefits of testing on client projects.
- [ ] Implements security tests.

#### Iterative
- [ ] Has brought several new working-methods that dramatically improve the overall company performance.

#### Communication
- [ ] Provides executives with high-level guidance on technical decisions when
  necessary.
- [ ] Collaborates with a client and sales about high-level estimates and prioritization.
- [ ] Collaborate with sales about high-level estimates and prioritization.
- [ ] Has a long track record of creating a plan to simplify complex apps, that the team can implement.      

#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Mentors other engineers to reach their level (and pass them).

#### Technical skills
- [ ] Recognized for high-quality, impactful technical contributions.
- [ ] Has a record of creating improvements in stability or performance for company-critical projects.

Commit message:

Add median experience to SE career ladder
After many inquries on the topic, I've studied the historical median at Abtion on the different levels. Although experience is a sensitive topic, I believe it can help to set expectations.
This does not change the fact that people are evaluated on skills.

career/software_engineer_ladder.md, after:

# Abtion Dev Career Ladder

This career ladder is a work in progress from dev leadership at Abtion. At a high level, a career ladder is a formal doc within a company that allows employees to advance their careers to higher levels of salary, responsibility, and authority. Once employees meet certain criteria, they are eligible to move into higher-level roles.

Our goal with the ladder is to provide a clear path for professional development and to have clear expectations regarding skills and salary at each level. As much as possible, we want people to see and take advantage of opportunities to grow here. To that end, we see this as a bit of a two-way contract: what we will provide to you in terms of growth, and for you, what you'll take on in learning. Each level has an associated level of experience. We do not use years of experience as the main method to determine someone's level. However, we acknowledge that relevant experience has value. To the talented engineers starting the journey, it also sets expectations on how long it takes to grow.

Please feel free to make PRs with suggestions. This is something that we welcome community feedback on!

Here are some examples of other career ladders:

[https://www.progression.fyi](https://www.progression.fyi)

## High-Level Company Values
1. Bonded by Love for Product
1. Continuous Delivery
1. Customer Comes First
1. Heavily Team Oriented
1. High Employee Retention
1. High-Quality Code Base
1. Open Communication
1. Pair-Programs

## Dev Values: Impactful, Simple, Test-Driven, Iterative, Communicative, Respectful, Skilled

### Level 1 - Associate Software Engineer
As an Associate Software Engineer, you demonstrate an ability to complete work
on a task-level in one or multiple apps and an eagerness to learn and grow. You
deliver working and well-tested code persistently, and you can identify when to
reach out to more senior developers for guidance. Your colleagues recognize you
for your clear growth mindset and your consistent focus on delivering business
value. Engineers usually spend around one year on this level.

#### Impactful
- [ ] Consistently completes work on a task-level within one or multiple apps.

#### Simple
- [ ] Is working on naming variables and learning to extract methods.

#### Test-driven
- [ ] Checks that all tests pass before merging into a shared branch.
- [ ] Can understand where test expectations are not met and fix some with the help of more senior developers.
- [ ] Can describe the testing pyramid and concepts around what makes a good test.
- [ ] Writes “good” test descriptions: uses nesting and clear contexts/assertions

#### Iterative
- [ ] Understands red-green-refactor.

#### Communication
- [ ] Focuses on building strong relationships with their team and direct
  manager.
- [ ] Proactively reaches out for help when struggling with a task.
- [ ] Actively seeks feedback to improve from colleagues and receives it well.
- [ ] Updates Asana.
- [ ] Comes prepared for meetings.
- [ ] Uses time tracking tools and vacation notifications.

#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] On time for meetings.
- [ ] Cares about their work.

#### Technical skills
- [ ] Knows about the three main sections of a Git project(working, staging, repository) as well as the most common commands(commit, pull, push)
- [ ] Uses a common linter such as rubocop
- [ ] Writes code in at least one language.
- [ ] Broad knowledge of main CS + XP concepts.

### Level 2 - Software Engineer
As a Software Engineer, you reliably execute work and drive tasks in your area
of expertise in collaboration with less experienced developers. You have an
overview that allows you to always contextualize your work within the current
milestone of a project, and you understand the strengths and weaknesses of
different technologies. You use this understanding to your advantage when
building new solutions for a client to provide business value faster. Product
managers can confidently rely on you to identify unclear requirements and your
ability to communicate promptly when issues arise. On average, engineers spend 2 years on this level.

#### Impactful
- [ ] Consistently closes tasks in their area of expertise collaborating with
  less experienced developers.

#### Simple
- [ ] Creates simple method / functions that most static code analysers would accept.
- [ ] Makes clear prs

#### Test-driven
- [ ] Starts to write unit tests before code, writes acceptance tests.
- [ ] Can write "acceptance" tests for existing code.
- [ ] Refactors test code: extracts methods, breaks up long tests
- [ ] Uses evident data in tests.
- [ ] Understands the tradeoff between test isolation and test speed.
- [ ] Starts practicing spiking if they don't know how to test something. Then sets the spike aside once a general path is understood and writes from scratch TDD.

#### Iterative
- [ ] Delivers working code with each commit.

#### Communication
- [ ] Understands and can provide a high-level overview of the current milestone
  of a project.
- [ ] Focuses on building strong relationships with their team, direct manager,
  and project manager/product owner.
- [ ] Identifies unclear requirements and reaches out to relevant stakeholders
  to clarify issues.
- [ ] Reliably do what they say they will, and communicates promptly if an issue
  arises.
- [ ] Hosts retros.
- [ ] Can compose a PR and provide feedback on them.
- [ ] Reliably tracks time on the appropriate category. Clarifies with the relevant PM when needed and communicates with the team to ensure that time tracking is consistent.

#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Shows respect for client goals
- [ ] Encourages team to stay on a sustainable pace.

#### Technical skills
- [ ] Understands what differentiates their favorite language from others. Knows what the language is useful for and when it is not the best option.
- [ ] Understand where to place logic in their favorite framework.

### Level 3 - Software Engineer
As a Software Engineer, you display a maturity that permeates every aspect of
your work. You can handle work independently with close to no guidance from
seniors, and you proactively unblock juniors when necessary. Your expertise in
two areas or more is clear to your team, and you understand how to navigate
several layers of the technical stack with ease. Product managers recognize you
for your ability to prioritize work and distinguish unimportant details from
critical tasks that deliver value to the client. Engineers spend around 3 years on this level.

#### Impactful
- [ ] Drives tasks from internal meetings and parks them nicely in internal acceptance.
- [ ] Requires minimal guidance from seniors and can help unblock other developers when
  necessary.
- [ ] Distinguishes between what work is relevant now, and what work can be
  tackled later.
- [ ] Pushes tasks forward in lack of complete context. Works with uncertainty.

#### Simple
- [ ] Capable of prioritizing tasks. Avoids getting caught up in unimportant details and focuses on delivering value to the client (avoids bike-shedding).

#### Test-driven
- [ ] Performs TDD over Test Last (TLD) nearly all the time.
- [ ] Can start a project from scratch and set up testing frameworks.
- [ ] Can mock HTTP requests and understands where these tests will potentially fail.
- [ ] Has integrated projects with CI.
- [ ] Breaks systems into small testable units.
- [ ] Can write tests at different levels (end to end, integration, unit)
- [ ] Correctly sets boundary conditions when testing.
- [ ] Cares about test speed. Can implement parallelization but knows why that's a bandaid. Seeks to keep the test suite under a minute.

#### Iterative
- [ ] Works with red-green-refactor.
- [ ] Uses time management techniques

#### Communication
- [ ] Understands and can provide a high-level overview of a project.
- [ ] Consistently facilitates communication with project managers/product
  owners for one or multiple apps.
- [ ] Is proficient with pair programming.
- [ ] Can write user stories.
- [ ] Introduces new members to the project.

#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Has taught other developers to pair program.
- [ ] Actively participates in feedback for team members.
- [ ] Proactively seeks out to unblock colleagues when they are struggling with
  a task including those that are outside their area of expertise.

#### Technical skills
- [ ] Can write code in at least two technical areas (frontend, backend, digital infrastructure). Ensures the completion of the tasks in their two areas of expertise.
- [ ] Can debug issues occurring across multiple levels of the stack.

### Level 4 - Senior Software Engineer
As a Senior Software Engineer, you consistently show an ability to handle highly
complex technical challenges across multiple axes without guidance. Your
technical decisions are always guided by data and based on the highest value for
all relevant parties. Your contributions are based on several years of experience where you had the chance to see the long-term effects on solutions you've designed and built. Product managers can rely on you when estimating the scale of a larger product, and your track record of turning big challenges into
successes is apparent to the entire organization. Although relevant experience varies significantly, engineers have around 6 years of experience when reaching this level.

#### Impactful
- [ ] Partners with project managers and designers to drive technical decisions based on the highest output for all parties' needs.
- [ ] Drives tasks from client research to client acceptance.
- [ ] Has a track record of embracing big challenges and turning them into
  successes.

#### Simple
- [ ] Has a long track of delivering value to the client, finding the right balance between maintenance work and delivering features. They are recognized as someone who can solve a bottleneck when needed or reduce technical debt.
- [ ] Consistently demonstrates an understanding of the tradeoffs between technical, analytical, and product needs and leads to solutions that take all of these needs into account.

#### Test-driven
- [ ] Has tested challenging parts of the codebase as third party integrations and SSO.
- [ ] Uses testing pain as a prompt to write better code.
- [ ] Makes use of stubbing and mocking/understands tradeoffs of hitting the DB.
- [ ] Values and can speak to examples of high cohesion, low coupling.
- [ ] Frequently works with other engineers to reinforce a culture of testing and TDD.
- [ ] Identifies tests that are hard to maintain and fixes them proactively.
- [ ] Writes performance tests

#### Iterative
- [ ] Well-composed commit narratives in commit flows.

#### Communication
- [ ] Understands and can provide a detailed overview of a project.
- [ ] Focuses on building strong relationships with their team, direct
  manager, and other seniors across the organization.
- [ ] Aligns team on expectations.
- [ ] PMs recognize them as someone who keeps the Asana board relevant. Internally, they act as PMs when needed.
- [ ] Have taught several developers to pair program.

#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Makes others better through code reviews, thorough documentation, technical guidance, and mentoring.
- [ ] Communicate with PMs when goals are unattainable.
- [ ] Understands the difficulties that the team is going through and helps how they can.
- [ ] Respects the right of junior team members to own parts of the code.

#### Technical skills
- [ ] Demonstrates the ability to succeed in a wide range of complex situations across multiple axes: e.g., scale, uncertainty, interconnectedness.
- [ ] Researches and proposes new technologies to the team(s).
- [ ] Is known as a go-to expert in one area of technology: e.g. browser rendering or TDD.

### Level 5 - Senior Software Engineer
As a Senior Software Engineer, you demonstrate that you are able to lead your
team from initial client meeting to delivery, and product managers trust you in
assisting them on a day-to-day basis. Your team recognizes you as a strong
technical leader that proactively identifies and clarifies issues whether
technical or business-related, and you consistently deliver high-value solutions
that are well-architected and can be easily maintained over time. Highly experienced engineers form this level with a median of 10 years of experience in the group.

#### Impactful
- [ ] Is recognized as a helpful consultant that consistently delivers high-value solutions for real problems.
- [ ] Reviews projects critically and ensures that they are divided into parts
  that can be solved in isolation most of the time.
- [ ] Consistently shows initiative and identifies areas of improvements for
  themselves and the team.

#### Simple
- [ ] Creates architecture that enables many potential futures without knowing exactly what the future is.
- [ ] Understands the broad architecture of the entire system and is capable of explaining the technical decisions taken by the team.

#### Test-driven
- [ ] Writes tests in multiple languages
- [ ] Can speak from experience on how TDD influences class design.
- [ ] Able to identify and be comfortable deleting tests that no longer add value
- [ ] Thinks about [F.I.R.S.T](https://tasdikrahman.me/2019/03/13/f-i-r-s-t-principles-of-testing/) tests

#### Iterative
- [ ] Has guided IPMs for a long period of time. Internally, they are known as someone who drives projects.

#### Communication
- [ ] Ensures proactively that the relevant stakeholders are informed if the
  team is running into issues.
- [ ] Identifies miscommunications and solves them before they become a problem.
- [ ] Identifies and proposes strategies around technical problems affecting their team and communicates standards.

#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Help dissolve tension when it arises.
- [ ] Does not take "all" responsibilities. They let their teammates take the responsibilities they care about.

#### Technical skills
- [ ] Has turned around highly complex projects so that less experienced developers could collaborate on them. They are recognized for someone who knows how to transform a legacy system into a successful project.
- [ ] Sought out for technical guidance.
- [ ] Anticipates technical issues at a product level and works with design to avoid them.

### Level 6 - Principal Software Engineer
As a Principal Software Engineer, you play a critical role in how engineering at
Abtion operates, and have a significant ownership in areas such as tooling,
scalability, security, processes, design etc. Throughout your long career at
Abtion, you have established yourself as a technical leader with a
cross-organizational mindset and a strong working relationship with other
stakeholders in the company. Your technical prowess is clear, and you have
driven impactful technical contributions consistently that set good examples for
how products should be built.

#### Impactful
- [ ] Plays a key role in the technical direction of the company and has
  introduced positive changes across multiple teams.
- [ ] Focuses on the growth of their team's productivity and career.

#### Simple
- [ ] Has solved bottlenecks in several projects throughout the years, making themselves replaceable after a planned period of time.
- [ ] Has mentored several teams on how to reduce the complexity of projects, services, and processes to get more done with less work.
- [ ] Excels at getting teams to focus on delivering high-impact value on the projects they mentor.

#### Test-driven
- [ ] Has succesfully laid out the test strategy on legacy projects. Has changed systems from unreliable to reliable.
- [ ] Answers philosophical/economic questions like: was that test worth it for the business? Should e2e tests be run in multiple browsers if we support multiple browsers with the product? Why or why not?
- [ ] Facilitates dialog around reduced costs of implementation or maintenance with a team.
- [ ] Supports PMs in explaining the long term benefits of testing on client projects.
- [ ] Implements security tests.

#### Iterative
- [ ] Has brought several new working-methods that dramatically improve the overall company performance.

#### Communication
- [ ] Provides executives with high-level guidance on technical decisions when
  necessary.
- [ ] Collaborates with a client and sales about high-level estimates and prioritization.
- [ ] Collaborate with sales about high-level estimates and prioritization.
- [ ] Has a long track record of creating a plan to simplify complex apps, that the team can implement.

#### Respectful teammate
- [ ] Mentors other engineers to reach their level (and pass them).

#### Technical skills
- [ ] Recognized for high-quality, impactful technical contributions.
- [ ] Has a record of creating improvements in stability or performance for company-critical projects.
