employee_manual/vacation_&_planned_time_off.md, before:

# Vacation and planned time off

You have 25 vacation days per year. When only working 4 days a week, this equals 6 weeks of vacation per year, given that you only spend 4 vacation days for a full week of vacation. 

When you are employed with payment during vacation, you receive a vacation pay of 1% of your salary. This is in addition to your regular salary. 
All days and calculations are provided following the Danish Vacation Law 'Ferieloven’. It is your own responsibility, to make sure you use all your vacation days before the new year starts and to check the entitled payments.

## Planning vacation and time off

To make sure things run smoothly, we have a few requierements you need to follow:
- Direct all vacation planning and questions regarding time off to Daniel
- Notify about time off as early as possible - the closer we get, the bigger the risk that the schedule doesn’t allow it
- Create an out-of-office event in your calendar so we know when you’re unavailable
- Set an "out of office" period at the bottom of the profile tab under settings in Asana
- Set your Slack status to “On vacation” and choose when for it to clear
- Track the time on “Vacation” in Harvest. Put 7,5h pr day - a week should amount to 30h

## Negative vacation days

Having your salary reduced because you’ve spent more vacation than you’ve saved up is annoying. That’s why in Abtion you get to “borrow” upcoming vacation days. You can spend up to 5 vacation days more than you have saved up during the “vacation year” (Sep 1 - Aug 31). However, you will have to catch them up before the vacation year ends August 31, simply because it’s not legal to transfer “negative vacation days” from one vacation year to the next.
 
## Mandatory vacation days

We have some mandatory vacation days. Some dates can vary from year to year, depending on which week day a public holidays fall. The Abtion calendar gives you the most accurate overview of all holidays and mandatory vacation days, so check there to be sure you are up to date. 

Here's an overview of the usual ones, all subject to change and individual planning:
- The Friday after Kristi Himmelfart / Ascension Day
- Week 29 and 30 
- Week between Christmas and New Year (including 24th and 31st of December)
- 1 non-specific day in January (in order to follow our standard of 6 weeks / 24 days per year)

Commit message:

Update vacation_&_planned_time_off.md (#148)
Added more details regarding vacation planning guidelines

employee_manual/vacation_&_planned_time_off.md, after:

# Vacation and planned time off

You have 25 vacation days per year. When only working 4 days a week, this equals 6 weeks of vacation per year, given that you only spend 4 vacation days for a full week of vacation. 

When you are employed with payment during vacation, you receive a vacation pay of 1% of your salary. This is in addition to your regular salary. 
All days and calculations are provided following the Danish Vacation Law 'Ferieloven’. It is your own responsibility, to make sure you use all your vacation days before the new year starts and to check the entitled payments.

## Planning vacation and time off

To make sure things run smoothly, we have a few requierements you need to follow:
- Direct all vacation planning and questions regarding time off to your nearest manager
- Notify about time off as early as possible - the closer we get, the bigger the risk that the schedule doesn’t allow it

When your time off is planned make sure to:
- Create an out-of-office event in your calendar so we know when you’re unavailable
- Track the time on “Vacation” in Harvest. Put 7,5h pr day - a week should amount to 30h
- Just before your time off set your Slack status to “On vacation” and choose when for it to clear

If your absence is a week or more also make sure to:
- Set an "out of office" period at the bottom of the profile tab under settings in Asana
- Activate auto-reply in your email for the duration of your absence and write a proper message

## Negative vacation days

Having your salary reduced because you’ve spent more vacation than you’ve saved up is annoying. That’s why in Abtion you get to “borrow” upcoming vacation days. You can spend up to 5 vacation days more than you have saved up during the “vacation year” (Sep 1 - Aug 31). However, you will have to catch them up before the vacation year ends August 31, simply because it’s not legal to transfer “negative vacation days” from one vacation year to the next.
 
## Mandatory vacation days

We have some mandatory vacation days. Some dates can vary from year to year, depending on which week day a public holidays fall. The Abtion calendar gives you the most accurate overview of all holidays and mandatory vacation days, so check there to be sure you are up to date. 

Here's an overview of the usual ones, all subject to change and individual planning:
- The Friday after Kristi Himmelfart / Ascension Day
- Week 29 and 30 
- Week between Christmas and New Year (including 24th and 31st of December)
- 1 non-specific day in January (in order to follow our standard of 6 weeks / 24 days per year)
