best-practices/inclusive-language.md, before:

# Inclusive language
At Abtion, we want everybody to feel welcome and safe. In order to facilitate
this, we encourage everyone to be mindful about the language they use. Below is
a list of words that can be hurtful to other people and should be avoided.

## Gendered pronouns
**Bad**
> When the user logs in, he is greeted by a NemID box.

**Good**
> When the user logs in, they are greeted by a NemID box.

## Grandfathering
**Bad**
> The current users will be grandfathered when we increase the price of our
> product.

**Good**
> The current users will be moved to the legacy pricing model when we increase
> the price of our product.

## Man hours
**Bad**
> We have calculated a mythical 120 man hours per month.

**Good**
> We have calculated a mythical 120 work hours per month.

## Gendered nouns
**Bad**
> We decided to hire a new chairman and two new salesmen to cope with the
> increased manpower.

**Good**
> We decided to hire a new chair and two new sales representative to cope with
> the increased workforce.

## `master` branch
**Bad**
> Checkout the `master` branch and start working.

**Good**
> Checkout the `main` branch and start working.

## Master/slave
**Bad**
> We configured the database with a master and 10 slaves.

**Good**
> We configured the database with a source and 10 replicas.

## Blacklist/whitelist
**Bad**
> All blocked emails are kept in a blacklist.

**Good**
> All blocked emails are kept in a blocklist/denylist.

## Redlining
**Bad**
> I redlined the areas that need changing.

**Good**
> I highlighted the areas the need changing.

## Dummy value
**Bad**
> I filled in the form with dummy values.

**Good**
> I filled in the form with default values.

## Sanity check
**Bad**
> After working from home, we gave the code a sanity check.

**Good**
> After working from home, we double checked the code.

## Crazy
**Bad**
> That is a crazy idea.

**Good**
> That is a wild idea.

# Additional reading
- [Apple Style Guide](https://help.apple.com/applestyleguide/#/apsg346ef241?sub=apd565c2b8a8f654)
- [Bias-free communication | Microsoft Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/bias-free-communication)
- [Gender Pronouns: How Small Words Make a Big Difference](https://www.ibm.com/blogs/think/2020/07/gender-pronouns-how-small-words-make-a-big-difference/)
- [Inclusive Chromium code](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/styleguide/inclusive_code.md)
- [MySQL Terminology Updates](https://mysqlhighavailability.com/mysql-terminology-updates/)
- [Pronouns | Google developer documentation style guide](https://developers.google.com/style/pronouns)
- [Railsguide | Wording](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/api_documentation_guidelines.html#wording)

Commit message:

Improve blacklist and dummy value examples.
In the blacklist example, we added a use case for allowlist, and in the
dummy example, we added more alternatives.

Co-authored-by: Thor-Bjørn Böhme <tb@abtion.com>

best-practices/inclusive-language.md, after:

# Inclusive language
At Abtion, we want everybody to feel welcome and safe. In order to facilitate
this, we encourage everyone to be mindful about the language they use. Below is
a list of words that can be hurtful to other people and should be avoided.

## Gendered pronouns
**Bad**
> When the user logs in, he is greeted by a NemID box.

**Good**
> When the user logs in, they are greeted by a NemID box.

## Grandfathering
**Bad**
> The current users will be grandfathered when we increase the price of our
> product.

**Good**
> The current users will be moved to the legacy pricing model when we increase
> the price of our product.

## Man hours
**Bad**
> We have calculated a mythical 120 man hours per month.

**Good**
> We have calculated a mythical 120 work hours per month.

## Gendered nouns
**Bad**
> We decided to hire a new chairman and two new salesmen to cope with the
> increased manpower.

**Good**
> We decided to hire a new chair and two new sales representative to cope with
> the increased workforce.

## `master` branch
**Bad**
> Checkout the `master` branch and start working.

**Good**
> Checkout the `main` branch and start working.

## Master/slave
**Bad**
> We configured the database with a master and 10 slaves.

**Good**
> We configured the database with a source and 10 replicas.

## Blacklist/whitelist
**Bad**
> All allowed and blocked emails are kept in a whitelist and blacklist,
> respectively.

**Good**
> All allowed and blocked emails are kept in an allowlist and a blocklist,
> respectively.

## Redlining
**Bad**
> I redlined the areas that need changing.

**Good**
> I highlighted the areas the need changing.

## Dummy value
**Bad**
> I filled in the form with dummy values.

**Good**
> I filled in the form with default/example/fake/test values.

## Sanity check
**Bad**
> After working from home, we gave the code a sanity check.

**Good**
> After working from home, we double checked the code.

## Crazy
**Bad**
> That is a crazy idea.

**Good**
> That is a wild idea.

# Additional reading
- [Apple Style Guide](https://help.apple.com/applestyleguide/#/apsg346ef241?sub=apd565c2b8a8f654)
- [Bias-free communication | Microsoft Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/bias-free-communication)
- [Gender Pronouns: How Small Words Make a Big Difference](https://www.ibm.com/blogs/think/2020/07/gender-pronouns-how-small-words-make-a-big-difference/)
- [Inclusive Chromium code](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/styleguide/inclusive_code.md)
- [MySQL Terminology Updates](https://mysqlhighavailability.com/mysql-terminology-updates/)
- [Pronouns | Google developer documentation style guide](https://developers.google.com/style/pronouns)
- [Railsguide | Wording](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/api_documentation_guidelines.html#wording)
