tools_and_services/managing_access_to_1pw_vaults_and_project_data.md, before:

## The basic rules and culture:
**We educate ourselves to be our own gate keeper. Everyone is actively contributing**
  - When asking permission to grand access to fx. Heroku or 1pw vaults, ALSO ask to be removed after a reasonable time finishing the task. 
  - Only have access to the data and vaults that you are actively working on
  - Ask to eliminate access when you can enter data/vaults of projects you are not working on.

## 1pw structure:
### Main rules:
  - Always generate codes via 1pw and use 2fa when possible
  - Always save it in the right Vault
  - Delete unused logins of licenses or services and update vault members
  
### Vault organisation
**1. Each project has their own Vault**
  - Only active teammembers have access to the Vault. 
  - When a team member is switching to another project, he/she ask's to be romoved access.
  - The project's main developers, (people with most knowledge), will remain access to the vault.

**2. Each team/department has their own Vault**
  - _PM, Marketing, Design. C-level, Sales:_ Shared logins categorised by department. Personal logins should be saved in private.
  - _Internal Infrastucture:_ Shared logins related to digital infrastucture that are not app specific. An item belongs to this vault if:
    - It offers development-wise functionality, it does not store client-sensitive data and is paid by Abtion. E.g. BrowserStack
    -  It contains information about several apps and is pending to be migrated into a client-specific plan. E.g. Rollbar.
  - _Technical Red Tape:_ Tech-related logins that are highly sensitive. E.g. Admin login on heroku
  - _Shared:_ Logins that are not sensitive and can be shared within the entire company. E.g. wifi code, educational logins, Kahoot.

## Managing accounts:
  - Keep the [license overview](https://app.asana.com/0/1149529931138025/list) up to date. This will help us to track activity on services and licenses + will make it easier to downgrade/upgrade when needed. 
  - We follow the basic structure of 1pw, creating a own 'section' in asana for each project. 

## People granding access are Hari, Angelle and the relevant project PM

Commit message:

Add "admin account" usage
In relation with our Information Security Policy

tools_and_services/managing_access_to_1pw_vaults_and_project_data.md, after:

## The basic rules and culture:
**We educate ourselves to be our own gate keeper. Everyone is actively contributing**
  - When asking permission to grand access to fx. Heroku or 1pw vaults, ALSO ask to be removed after a reasonable time finishing the task. 
  - Only have access to the data and vaults that you are actively working on
  - Ask to eliminate access when you can enter data/vaults of projects you are not working on.

## 1pw structure:
### Main rules:
  - Always generate codes via 1pw and use 2fa when possible
  - Always save it in the right Vault
  - Delete unused logins of licenses or services and update vault members
  - On critical systems, admins should have separate accounts for special use only. For daily usage, they will use their private accounts with the necessary permissions.
  
### Vault organisation
**1. Each project has their own Vault**
  - Only active teammembers have access to the Vault. 
  - When a team member is switching to another project, he/she ask's to be romoved access.
  - The project's main developers, (people with most knowledge), will remain access to the vault.

**2. Each team/department has their own Vault**
  - _PM, Marketing, Design. C-level, Sales:_ Shared logins categorised by department. Personal logins should be saved in private.
  - _Internal Infrastucture:_ Shared logins related to digital infrastucture that are not app specific. An item belongs to this vault if:
    - It offers development-wise functionality, it does not store client-sensitive data and is paid by Abtion. E.g. BrowserStack
    -  It contains information about several apps and is pending to be migrated into a client-specific plan. E.g. Rollbar.
  - _Technical Red Tape:_ Tech-related logins that are highly sensitive. E.g. Admin login on heroku
  - _Shared:_ Logins that are not sensitive and can be shared within the entire company. E.g. wifi code, educational logins, Kahoot.

## Managing accounts:
  - Keep the [license overview](https://app.asana.com/0/1149529931138025/list) up to date. This will help us to track activity on services and licenses + will make it easier to downgrade/upgrade when needed. 
  - We follow the basic structure of 1pw, creating a own 'section' in asana for each project. 

## People granding access are Hari, Angelle and the relevant project PM
