behaviour_and_protocol/code_of_conduct_.md, before:

# Abtion Code of Conduct

## Purpose

At Abtion we aim to be inclusive to the largest number of contributors, with the most varied and diverse backgrounds possible. As such, we are committed to providing a friendly, safe and welcoming environment for all, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, ability, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and religion (or lack thereof).

This code of conduct outlines our expectations for all those who participate in our community, as well as the consequences for unacceptable behavior.

We invite all those who are in our community to help us create safe and positive experiences for everyone.


## Expected Behavior

The following behaviors are expected and requested of all community members:

  * Participate in an authentic and active way. In doing so, you contribute to the health and longevity of this community.
  * Exercise consideration and respect in your speech and actions.
  * Attempt collaboration before conflict.
  * Refrain from demeaning, discriminatory, or harassing behavior and speech.
  * Be mindful of your surroundings and of your fellow participants. Alert a manager if you notice a dangerous situation, someone in distress, or violations of this Code of Conduct, even if they seem inconsequential.
  * Remember that community event venues may be shared with members of the public; please be respectful to all patrons of these locations.

## Unacceptable Behavior

The following behaviors are considered harassment and are unacceptable within our community:

  * Violence, threats of violence or violent language directed against another person.
  * Sexist, racist, homophobic, transphobic, ableist or otherwise discriminatory jokes and language.
  * Posting or displaying sexually explicit or violent material.
  * Posting or threatening to post other people's personally identifying information ("doxing").
  * Personal insults, particularly those related to gender, sexual orientation, race, religion, or disability.
  * Unwelcome sexual attention. This includes, sexualized imagery, comments or jokes; inappropriate touching, groping, and unwelcomed sexual advances.
  * Deliberate intimidation, stalking or following (online or in person).
  * Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior.
  * Sustained disruption of community events, including talks and presentations.


## Consequences of Unacceptable Behavior

Unacceptable behavior from any Abtion employee or contractor, including sponsors and those with decision-making authority, will not be tolerated.

Anyone asked to stop unacceptable behavior is expected to comply immediately.

If someone engages in unacceptable behavior, a manager may take any action they deem appropriate.

## Reporting Guidelines

If you are subject to or witness unacceptable behavior, or have any other concerns, please notify a manager as soon as possible.


## Addressing Grievances

If you feel you have been falsely or unfairly accused of violating this Code of Conduct, you should notify a manager with a concise description of your grievance.

## Scope

We expect all community participants (contributors, paid or otherwise; sponsors; and other guests) to abide by this Code of Conduct in all community venues--online and in-person--as well as in all one-on-one communications pertaining to community business.

This code of conduct and its related procedures also applies to unacceptable behavior occurring outside the scope of community activities when such behavior has the potential to adversely affect the safety and well-being of community members.

## Contact info

```
  Hari Carreras
  hc@abtion.com
```

## License and attribution

This is largely taken from Citizen Code of Conduct is distributed by [Stumptown Syndicate](http://stumptownsyndicate.org) under a [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/). 

Portions of text derived from the [Django Code of Conduct](https://www.djangoproject.com/conduct/) and the [Geek Feminism Anti-Harassment Policy](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Conference_anti-harassment/Policy).

_Revision 2.3. Posted 6 March 2017._

_Revision 2.2. Posted 4 February 2016._

_Revision 2.1. Posted 23 June 2014._

_Revision 2.0, adopted by the [Stumptown Syndicate](http://stumptownsyndicate.org) board on 10 January 2013. Posted 17 March 2013._

Commit message:

Add edit page link functionality to markdown files
Implemented a Jekyll plugin that automatically appends an edit link to all markdown pages, allowing users to easily edit content on GitHub. Added a new HTML include for the edit link and updated the configuration to specify the GitHub repository URL. Updated the code of conduct document to include the edit link.

behaviour_and_protocol/code_of_conduct_.md, after:

# Abtion Code of Conduct

## Purpose

At Abtion we aim to be inclusive to the largest number of contributors, with the most varied and diverse backgrounds possible. As such, we are committed to providing a friendly, safe and welcoming environment for all, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, ability, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and religion (or lack thereof).

This code of conduct outlines our expectations for all those who participate in our community, as well as the consequences for unacceptable behavior.

We invite all those who are in our community to help us create safe and positive experiences for everyone.


## Expected Behavior

The following behaviors are expected and requested of all community members:

  * Participate in an authentic and active way. In doing so, you contribute to the health and longevity of this community.
  * Exercise consideration and respect in your speech and actions.
  * Attempt collaboration before conflict.
  * Refrain from demeaning, discriminatory, or harassing behavior and speech.
  * Be mindful of your surroundings and of your fellow participants. Alert a manager if you notice a dangerous situation, someone in distress, or violations of this Code of Conduct, even if they seem inconsequential.
  * Remember that community event venues may be shared with members of the public; please be respectful to all patrons of these locations.

## Unacceptable Behavior

The following behaviors are considered harassment and are unacceptable within our community:

  * Violence, threats of violence or violent language directed against another person.
  * Sexist, racist, homophobic, transphobic, ableist or otherwise discriminatory jokes and language.
  * Posting or displaying sexually explicit or violent material.
  * Posting or threatening to post other people's personally identifying information ("doxing").
  * Personal insults, particularly those related to gender, sexual orientation, race, religion, or disability.
  * Unwelcome sexual attention. This includes, sexualized imagery, comments or jokes; inappropriate touching, groping, and unwelcomed sexual advances.
  * Deliberate intimidation, stalking or following (online or in person).
  * Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior.
  * Sustained disruption of community events, including talks and presentations.


## Consequences of Unacceptable Behavior

Unacceptable behavior from any Abtion employee or contractor, including sponsors and those with decision-making authority, will not be tolerated.

Anyone asked to stop unacceptable behavior is expected to comply immediately.

If someone engages in unacceptable behavior, a manager may take any action they deem appropriate.

## Reporting Guidelines

If you are subject to or witness unacceptable behavior, or have any other concerns, please notify a manager as soon as possible.


## Addressing Grievances

If you feel you have been falsely or unfairly accused of violating this Code of Conduct, you should notify a manager with a concise description of your grievance.

## Scope

We expect all community participants (contributors, paid or otherwise; sponsors; and other guests) to abide by this Code of Conduct in all community venues--online and in-person--as well as in all one-on-one communications pertaining to community business.

This code of conduct and its related procedures also applies to unacceptable behavior occurring outside the scope of community activities when such behavior has the potential to adversely affect the safety and well-being of community members.

## Contact info

```
  Hari Carreras
  hc@abtion.com
```

## License and attribution

This is largely taken from Citizen Code of Conduct is distributed by [Stumptown Syndicate](http://stumptownsyndicate.org) under a [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/).

Portions of text derived from the [Django Code of Conduct](https://www.djangoproject.com/conduct/) and the [Geek Feminism Anti-Harassment Policy](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Conference_anti-harassment/Policy).

_Revision 2.3. Posted 6 March 2017._

_Revision 2.2. Posted 4 February 2016._

_Revision 2.1. Posted 23 June 2014._

_Revision 2.0, adopted by the [Stumptown Syndicate](http://stumptownsyndicate.org) board on 10 January 2013. Posted 17 March 2013._

{% include edit_page_link.html %}
